For our blackjack web application, we will need to maintain data on players themselves for a sense of progression and increased interactiveness, game data to generate insightful statistics about blackjack, card data to keep games consistent, and game state data to similarly maintain consistency and seamless game experiences.

To allow for a sense of progression and statefulness for users, we would need a database to keep track of usernames that players choose, and potentially passwords. Associated with each user would then be player statistics. This would include their total number of won hands against the dealer, total number of lost hands against the dealer, total number of blackjacks, total amount of money won, total amount of money lost, etc. From this information we could present the player with interesting statistics about themselves, such as highest amount won, or highest amount lost.

Likewise, we would keep track of game information overall to analyze trends of blackjack. This would include, for each game played, how much money the house paid out, how much money the house won, how many blackjacks did players get, how many blackjacks did the dealer get, the win-loss ratio of the dealer, etc. This would similarly serve the purpose of being transparent to players, and also to provide insight on how casinos make money. Given that a player has a 42.22% chance of winning (with ideal play), and the dealer a 49.1% chance of winning, it would be insightful for players and ourselves to see how quickly these close percentages total up to large monetary differences.

In order to facilitate a 52-card deck, and so that each player sees each other’s hand to properly display game information to allow for optimal play, we will need to keep track of each card in play and their associated state (visible to all players, not visible to all players). In doing so, we can have them properly displayed on the web application. Furthermore, we will have to keep track of discarded cards to know when to swap out decks or shuffle.

Lastly, we will need to keep track of the data involved in a single game of blackjack. Aside from card information, this would include current turn (dealer or player), if a game is active or not, score per player to tally up over the course of multiple games, with a potential multiplier for win streaks, and player requests (i.e. if a player wants to hit or stand) and who requested so the cards go to the correct player. This data is essential for our application so as to have consistent games that players can expect to function seamlessly and similarly to the real-life counterpart.

In conclusion, the data we track will help to create a better user experience, from individual profiling for statistics and scores or (fictional) bank accounts that carry over from sessions, to keeping game states consistent for multiple users to create consistent experiences for each player.
